[SWISH]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired special agent
who served in the
Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO
ET-related intelligence.
Today we are discussing his
work on other special projects.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD DOTY: Thank you.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: What is Area 20,
and what did you do there?
>>DOTY: OK.
One of the things that
we were able to do
was make connections
with people within DARPA
to go out to a site
and observe an ET
craft that had been captured.
Now, when we first dealt
with these people that
were going to take
us out there, they
kept telling us the Nevada Test
Site, the Nevada Test Site.
Well, I knew Nevada Test Site.
I had been out there
numerous times.
But I'm thinking
they meant Area 51,
because why would an ET craft
be stored in a Nevada Test Site?
But they kept telling
us we were going
to be taken to Area 20, which
is in the northwest corner
of the Nevada Test Site, not
far from Area 51 or not far
from Tonopah.
And I kept doubting the
people that were with me,
the scientists
that were with me.
I kept doubting that we're
not going to go to Area 20.
That might be where
we're going to stage.
But from that point-- and
this is in 1996, I think.
We're going to go into Area 51.
We had to get special
passes, and so forth.
Well, lo and behold, when we
got to Mercury, Nevada, which
is an entryway into Nevada Test
Site, they put us in a van, six
by van, and we
drove up to Area 20.
We went through the
gate at Area 20.
We went up and around
and into this enclosed
area that was heavily guarded
with a private security
company.
Not the Wackenhut
Security that was--
that normally guards
the Nevada Test Site.
But this was separate.
And what really
surprised me, which
I am somewhat
hesitant about saying,
the arm patches on these
people had DARPA security.
Now, I never heard of DARPA
having a security force,
but they maybe do.
Anyways, we were allowed in,
and there was a huge building.
I didn't-- I wouldn't
call it a hangar.
It was 1,000-square
foot building.
And we were allowed
to go into a door,
and we had to go through
several security checkpoints
to get into an open bay
area, a huge open bay area.
And sitting in the
middle of this area
is this huge, huge
flying saucer.
>>EMERY: What's huge to you?
100 yards, or--
>>DOTY: 50 foot in diameter.
>>EMERY: 50 foot in diameter.
OK.
>>DOTY: At least.
And from the bottom part of
the craft at the top dome
was probably 50 feet also.
The bottom portion
of it had opened.
It was open.
And it was a gateway.
And it didn't appear to be
something extraterrestrial.
It looked to me like there
was just normal steps
that we would bring up
and put there, a ladder.
A ladder or some-- actually,
like the old aircraft--
>>EMERY: Oh, right--
>>DOTY: --ladders or gateway
that you would walk down.
It was something
similar to that.
And the person that
was leading us in there
and was narrating this
said, this craft was found--
it was crashed.
Now, we could see a lot
of damage on this craft.
The one section-- one section
to our right, the undercarriage
was damaged.
Another section to the
left, parts of the craft
had been broken off.
The undercarriage
of where the dome
system was on the undercarriage
was heavily damaged.
So it appeared to
me that the craft
had crashed into something
heavy, maybe rock
or something like that.
>>EMERY: Or did
we shoot it down?
>>DOTY: Well, we
weren't told that.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: It's very possible.
I think it was-- some of
the consensus was some
of the scientists not there,
but later on when we were back
in Las Vegas was talking
about the fact that, hey,
was that a missile--
damage caused by a missile?
Was that caused by a rocket
or maybe anti-aircraft?
Well, we don't know.
We weren't told.
We were allowed to
walk inside of it.
The interior of it was huge,
but it was obviously that--
obviously that someone--
not us, our people--
had taken things
out, disassembled.
Because you could
see where things
had been cut with some
kind of a saw or laser.
I don't know how.
Like, the console system
had been taken out
and it was sitting
up against the side
of the interior of the craft.
And you could look down
and see down in the area
where there were huge tanks,
several numerous tanks.
And there were rods
that were in these tanks
with pinpoints leading up
into maybe another section.
And we weren't told what it
was, but of course, later on,
these scientists just
went crazy about,
that's the propulsion system.
That's an antimatter system.
We know how this works.
And they went all into detail.
So this craft probably had an
antimatter propulsion system.
And then we were--
it was difficult to move
around in it, the craft,
because it had been torn up.
There's things
scattered all over.
We could only go maybe 20 feet
in, and then we could look.
And we weren't allowed
to take any pictures,
but we'd look at different
sections of the craft.
And after about 20 minutes or
so they said, OK, that's it.
You guys can make
your own decisions
on what you're seeing here.
And the scientists kept
saying, well, how can we get
briefed into this and how--
more into it?
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>DOTY: And of course,
one of the questions
was, why is this here
and not at Area 51?
And one of the-- our narrator--
only one person
ever talked to us.
He was probably a younger
guy, probably in his 30s,
not that old.
Very distinguished-looking.
He had a very, very neat
appearance, an outfit on,
a one-piece-- like a jumpsuit.
He didn't have any
patches or anything on it.
When asked, why is it being
kept here, and he said,
that's our business.
OK.
And the--
>>EMERY: Maybe they
got a good deal on it.
>>DOTY: [LAUGHS] I
think one of the reasons
is it's so big that
it might not fit.
Because I had been
in-- you know,
eight years prior,
I was at Area 51.
And they didn't have any--
now they do.
They've built a lot
of the larger hangars.
And I thought to
myself, that's probably
why, because then
maybe they didn't
have anything big enough.
And of course, the
next question was,
how did you guys get this here?
I mean, this is big.
I mean, you couldn't
have flown it here.
It's damaged.
You couldn't have
transported it here.
How did it get here?
And he wouldn't
answer that question.
>>EMERY: So that's it
what those wide load
trucks are in Nevada there.
>>DOTY: It would have to
be really, really wide.
The only thing I
could think of is
they'd had to pick it up with
one of those helicopters,
the cranes I think they call
them, or the heavy transport.
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>DOTY: And I don't even
know-- it looked very heavy.
I mean, I was bumping
against the sides
inside, trying to
see if it was--
and it was very thick metal.
>>EMERY: Solid.
>>DOTY: Solid metal.
>>EMERY: Can you
describe the inside
to the best of
your recollection?
>>DOTY: Well, the
cavity, the interior
of the cavity that
we were in was huge.
It was a huge cavity.
It had been
disassembled, tore up.
It looked like everything
had been cut by something.
And the roof was very high.
Like, it went up into
the dome that you
could see from the outside.
There were-- it looked like
they had seats, various seats up
above, in a deck up above,
and in a second deck,
and then that's
what we could see.
Now, the interior
area that we were at,
it was very difficult
to make out anything
because it had
been disassembled.
The metal was very thick.
I mean, we weren't able to
actually go up and analyze it.
But you could just look at it
and see how thick everything
was, the console was.
We weren't able to actually look
at the front of the console,
because it was laid--
that part of the console was
leaning against the wall.
There was a peculiar ball, bulb.
It's like one of these
huge beach balls.
I mean, probably
an oversized beach
ball that was on some kind
of a pedestal in the front.
I would call it the
front, because we reasoned
that if you reassembled
that control panel,
then that would be the front.
And the scientists
were figuring this out.
Well, I was able to go over
and put my hand on this.
It was flexible.
It was heavy-- heavy
material like it's real
hard and difficult to explain.
But it was-- and
I could indent it.
>>EMERY: Like a memory
foam, but plastic?
>>DOTY: Yeah.
But harder than memory foam.
>>EMERY: Right.
Right.
>>DOTY: And I could
press into it.
And I was trying to spin it,
because it seemed like it
was on some sort of a pedestal.
I'd looked down,
and there was a rod
that it seemed to be sitting--
the center portion of it
was sitting on, on
some kind of a rod.
And it was embedded into
the bottom of the floor.
And it appeared to
me it would spin.
Maybe it was some sort
of a gauge or something.
But I couldn't spin it.
I couldn't move it.
I could just push
my hand into it.
And the floor was heavy.
The entranceway-- I could--
we couldn't see any doors.
They probably were
encased into the wall
and would come out or something
that the scientists would get.
And I was with the scientists
when we went back to Las Vegas
at the hotel we were
staying at, and we had kind
of a round table discussion.
And they immediately
started diagramming
and making sketches of
what they remembered,
and writing down as--
actually, while we were driving
back, they were writing down.
They had notebooks filled in
just the hour it took us to get
to Vegas of what they observed.
I mean, they were more
observers than I was.
And they asked me to do
the same thing, and I did.
But you know, I had
three or four pages,
and they had 30
or 40 by the time
we got back there
because I don't know what
I'm supposed to be looking at.
But I sat down
with the scientists
and they start reasoning, number
one, that's an anti-pod system.
We know how that works.
The undercarriage portion
of that thick area
was filled with a gas,
and the antimatter
was trapped in this gas.
And they probably even
talked about the gas,
and I can't remember
what the gas was.
And the other sections were
matter, positive matter.
And they would induce
the matter together
and the bottom
portion would open up,
and that would be the
propellant or the energy that
was released when you--
positive and negative matter.
And they were talking about
this and how this operated.
And then they drew the interior
showing the control panel
where it would probably--
they thought it would be.
And what we didn't know was what
the display panel looked like,
whether there were handprint
indentations like we'd
seen before.
Once they got back
to the Institute,
then they started drawing
concepts of what this was.
And-- but we didn't
know where it came from.
We didn't know what alien
race or extraterrestrial race
that flew it or where it crashed
or where it was shot down.
>>EMERY: While you
were in the craft,
were there any different
scents or smells?
>>DOTY: Well, it
was dark in there.
The only lighting was
lighting they had brought in,
portable lighting systems they
had inside all over the place.
And there were cables running
outside to generators.
It smelt to me almost
like an ozone--
you know, this chemical smell?
>>EMERY: Sure.
>>DOTY: At certain times.
Or when you do an experiment
where you burn a wire,
you get this ozone
type of smell.
That's the odor that
I detected inside.
Now, some of the
scientists claim
that the odor was more
like something had been
burnt-- metal had been burned.
Now, I didn't detect that.
I detected that kind
of an ozone smell.
>>EMERY: So there
was another project
that brought you to an
elderly scientist in Roswell.
Could you tell us
more about that?
>>DOTY: Yes.
One of my assignments
was to determine
whether there were any elderly,
retired scientists alive
that had maybe experienced
Roswell or any other ET crash
sites or information.
So I reviewed-- I went and I
reviewed all the information I
could find on these scientists.
And lo and behold, I find a
name on a roster, an old roster,
that was still classified
that the government had
that we had access to, which
listed a name of a scientist.
I mean, there were several
there, but all of them
had died or--
they passed away.
But there was one still--
apparently still alive.
So I had to do
some checks on him,
and I had to go through
some different agencies
to do checks.
And lo and behold, I find this
guy is still alive and lives
in Bonita Springs, Florida.
So I-- rather than trying
to find him, calling him,
I flew down to Florida,
went to Bonita Springs,
got the address, went
to this guy's house.
And out of the clear, I
just knocked on his door.
And I figured, you know,
somebody else would answer,
but he answered.
A lively 95-year-old man.
I said-- I introduced myself.
I told him I was
from the Institute
for Advanced Studies at Austin.
He said, oh.
Dr. Puthoff's place.
And I said, yes.
I work for Dr.
Puthoff, and I'm here
to ask you some
questions about Roswell,
because I believe
you were there.
He said, sure.
Come on in.
>>EMERY: [LAUGHS]
>>DOTY: And this guy was in
shorts because it's Florida
and this is, like,
May, I believe it was.
And he said, come on back.
What can I get you?
An orange drink or
lemonade or whatever.
I said, sure.
Just lemonade.
And I'm looking around
for other people,
but he lives here by himself.
I said, do you have a
housekeeper or somebody?
He says, I'm fit enough to
take care of the house myself.
So I didn't want to offend him.
I said, oh, OK.
How old are you?
And he told me 95.
So we sat down.
He said, what do
you need to know?
And so I asked him
questions about Roswell.
You were at Roswell?
Yes, I was at the crash site.
Which crash site were you at?
And he told me the Corona site.
I said, with the debris,
or were you at-- he
said, well, we initially went
to the debris site first,
and we found the debris.
He said, but the debris
field was the tail section
of the spacecraft.
It wasn't the craft.
I said, wait.
I knew of that.
But the craft landed some
distance away, about 10 miles
or whatever it was away.
And I later went there.
I said, well, what
did you find there?
He said, well, when we
got there-- and I said,
how many people were with you?
And he said, well, I was with
two other scientists and then
two other military people, two
officers, military officers.
And we got there.
The live alien had left.
They'd taken him away.
But the bodies were still
there of the entities.
And I said, well, did
you examine the bodies?
He says, well, no.
I'm not a medical officer,
but they had medical people
there doing that.
He said, they had a
pathologist from Kirtland Field
that was there to do that.
I said, well, can you
describe what you saw?
He said, well, yeah,
about four foot--
he described what I had
talked about before.
I said, well, what
about the live one?
He said, well, I don't know
where they took that one.
But my expertise is
I'm a metallurgist,
so I wanted to know what
this craft was made of.
And I said, so you
went in the craft?
He said, no.
We examined the outer area,
but the craft had been--
was going to be transported
to another location.
And so he talked about
the craft, and he said,
well, we went back
to the debris field,
because we needed to gather
some evidence back there.
And so-- and so we talked
for probably an hour, an hour
and a half.
And he said, I thought you were
one of the government officials
that were going to come here
to take something away from me.
>>EMERY: Oh.
[LAUGHS]
>>DOTY: And I said, no, no.
I'm with the Institute.
I'm not a government agent.
And he said, well,
you talk like--
once you're in a field of--
I mean, a federal--
>>EMERY: He's picking up on it.
>>DOTY: He said,
you kind of talk
like an interrogator rather
than an investigator.
Very smart guy.
95 years old.
And I--
>>EMERY: He's on to you.
>>DOTY: I do come across
sometimes like that.
I did back then.
And I said, well, I'm very--
I'm sorry.
I used to work in
intelligence a long time ago,
but I don't work there anymore.
I'm a private citizen.
I work for the Institute
for Advanced Studies.
I said, what did you keep?
He said, you're not
going to take it from me?
I said, I won't take
anything from you, sir.
So he went into this room
and got this box out,
and he had a piece of debris.
>>EMERY: Oh my goodness.
>>DOTY: And it was about
10 to 12 inches long.
And he brought it out
and he set it down.
He said, play with it.
So I played with it.
He said, wad it up.
And it was hard to wad up.
But you wad it up, you set
it down, it goes right back
to the same shape.
>>EMERY: No
wrinkles, no creases.
>>DOTY: No wrinkles, no creases.
I said, that's like
kind of memory foam.
He said, well, that's
kind of what we thought.
But I never found out,
which still haunts
me today is what it's made of.
>>EMERY: He said this.
>>DOTY: He said this.
I said, well, you don't think
they figured it out by now?
He said, you tell me.
I said, well, I'm
not a scientist, sir.
I'm a field investigator.
He said, well-- and he started
asking me about college.
Did you go to college?
Yeah, I went to college, but my
degree was in political science
with a minor in
education, so I'm not--
I'm not a scientist, so I
can't tell you what they found.
He said, but you work
at the Institute.
And he started asking
me questions about that.
I said, I'll tell you what.
Would you agree to have the
Institute scientists come out
and talk to you?
Oh, absolutely.
I tried to contact--
I sent Dr. Puthoff a
letter some years ago,
and I never got a response.
I said, I'll guarantee
you you're going
to get a response this time.
And so I took
photographs of it, and I
went back and made contacts.
The other scientists then just
a few days later flew out there,
and I didn't--
I wasn't privy to
what they found.
>>EMERY: Oh, really?
Oh.
>>DOTY: But that was one of my--
my field-- field projects
that I did for him.
>>EMERY: Was there anything
else that he said that you never
heard before?
>>DOTY: I think the--
how-- how they
examined the craft.
Not the debris field
so much, but the craft,
and how they connected the
debris field with the craft.
Because initially, they
thought there was two craft.
Well, there actually were, but
they didn't find the other one
till 1949.
But they-- scientists
are pretty smart,
so they started
reconnoitering the area
and trying to determine
what could be--
and they didn't have the ability
at that time to get in the air,
to see it from the air.
But they were smart
enough to figure,
that debris field has
to be from this craft.
And when they finally got
the craft to Los Alamos
or wherever they
took it first, then
they pieced together this debris
field at this tail section.
And he said, we thought it
was some sort of an antenna,
but I don't know after all these
years if that was an antenna
or if it was something else that
was some kind of a stabilizer
system on the craft.
And he talked about a
lot of different things
that he observed and
what he determined.
But one of the puzzles
was, what's it made of?
How can we make this?
And one of the things that
he did for a number of years
after this, because he worked
for the government for a number
of years, he said, we wanted
to know what this material was
and what we could substitute
to make the same thing.
We might not be able to have--
make this material because
it's from another planet
or a substance of materials
that we don't have here,
but what can we substitute
make the same thing?
He said, and for years,
that's what I worked on.
>>EMERY: And what
experiments did he go on it?
Did he tell you?
>>DOTY: He didn't-- he
didn't go into that.
>>EMERY: OK.
And whatever happened
to that debris?
Did he get to keep it?
>>DOTY: I think the Institute
was able to obtain it.
And I don't know
about that part of it.
I'm just guessing.
>>EMERY: What did the
Institute do with the metal?
>>DOTY: I was never
privy to that.
My job was to go
out to the field
and get the stuff
and-- or obtain
it or research it and come
back and tell the scientists.
And then some other
people would then
make contact with
these other people--
other retired scientists.
>>EMERY: Is there anything
you can add to it?
I mean, you did
handle this yourself.
Did you test it before you--
you know, make sure
it wasn't radioactive
before you grabbed it?
Or he just opened the box
and he handed it to you?
Did you notice anything else?
>>DOTY: No.
I thought about the fact that
maybe this was radioactive,
but this guy is 95 years old
and he's had it all these years,
and he's still walking around.
So--
>>EMERY: Maybe it gave
him more longevity.
>>DOTY: Maybe it did--
maybe it was like
cocoon, you know?
But you know, I met--
I played with it
as much as I could.
And what I was trying to do is
tear it, and it wouldn't rip.
I mean-- I mean,
it was flexible.
I was trying-- I mean, I'm not
a weight lifter or anything.
I was trying to--
and I had a knife on me.
I always carry a pocket knife.
And I was trying to
put a hole in it.
It was impossible to do.
And it was just an
amazing substance
that you could wrinkle--
and it took some
strength to do that.
It wasn't like aluminum foil.
It was thicker
than aluminum foil.
This stuff is probably--
and I didn't measure
it-- but probably an inch
and a half thick.
>>EMERY: Wow.
>>DOTY: And he had a 15
or 16-inch piece of it.
And it was all one piece.
It wasn't as if it was torn off.
And it took me some time
to get it into a ball.
And I'm thinking-- and then
there was less resistance.
That's what really puzzled
me, because then you think,
oh, I got it into a ball.
Then I put it down and it pops
back into its original shape.
>>EMERY: You said it
had an original shape,
so it wasn't like
a chunk or a torn,
you know, shattered
piece of the craft.
This had-- was it
a rectangle, or--
>>DOTY: Yeah, it was
a long rectangle.
Yeah.
Yes, it was.
It had--
>>EMERY: Edges?
>>DOTY: It had clear edges.
Clear-cut edges to it.
It seemed like it might
have been peeled off.
>>EMERY: Maybe a tile.
>>DOTY: Exactly.
Some sort of a tile.
And you know, I didn't ask him
that, but the scientists later,
I remember one of them said
exactly what you said, is,
I wonder if this is part of
a tile system or something?
And how would it--
how does it stick?
You know, there was a lot
of questions about that.
But it was just a piece.
It was not torn.
Didn't appear to be torn off.
The edges were smooth.
And almost-- I'm always
thinking it was cut off,
but you know, the
more I think now,
it probably was peeled off.
It maybe was tile on the
antenna or something.
>>EMERY: Rick, working with Hal
and working with the Institute,
what was the most mind-blowing
thing that you experienced
or learned about?
>>DOTY: Well, [LAUGHS] there
were a couple of things,
and only one that
I could actually
talk about, because the others
would be somewhat proprietary.
But I did have an occasion
to go to Switzerland, CERN,
and observe the supercollider.
I was there was
other scientists.
And we were-- we toured it.
And they were actually going to
do a test while we were there.
And I'm not a physicist,
so I'm not really sure,
but there were going
to collide or shoot
something, some particular
element into another element.
And while-- and they anticipated
what was going to happen.
They said, OK, we're going
to probably get these three
particles that are coming out.
And they went into details which
I didn't really understand.
So we were at a viewing place.
And when they did
it, these scientists
were yelling and
screaming success.
And I don't know
what we're talking--
the guy-- the
scientist I was with--
I can't mention his name--
but he said, oh my god.
I said, well, what happened?
What did they do?
He said, rather than four
particles that came out,
we got 10 particles.
We just discovered
six more particles
that are within an atom.
Now, this was in 2000, I
believe, or sometime in there.
If you go to CERN and the
supercollider website,
you find that now, today, 2021,
they have 59, because I just
checked this morning.
I was going to bring this up.
And I checked this
morning, and they
had-- they went from 10 or 12
that they knew then up to 59
now.
>>EMERY: Brilliant.
>>DOTY: It's brilliant.
And although I'm not a
physicist or a chemist,
just to be there
and witnessing this
was an amazing opportunity.
>>EMERY: And to feel
all the energy and where
that went from then till now.
>>DOTY: Exactly.
Exactly.
>>EMERY: You're part of history.
>>DOTY: Yes.
>>EMERY: And I
also suspect, Rick,
that there's amazing things that
have happened that you probably
can't mention.
>>DOTY: There are many of
those that I can't mention.
>>EMERY: Rick, thanks so much
for being on the show again.
>>DOTY: You're welcome.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: My name's
Emery Smith, and this
is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]